Question 1: What is the correct way to instantiate a static nested class called Engine inside a class called Car?

A) Car.Engine e = new Car.Engine();
B) Car c = new Car(); Car.Engine e = c.new Engine();
C) Engine e = new Engine();
D) Car.Engine e = Car.new Engine();

Question 2: What makes an inner class different from a static nested class?

A) Inner classes can only have private members
B) Inner classes require an instance of the outer class to be created
C) Inner classes cannot implement interfaces
D) Inner classes are defined outside the outer class


Question 3: Which of the following can an inner class do that a static nested class CANNOT?

A) Implement an interface
B) Have a constructor
C) Directly access the outer class's instance variables
D) Be declared public


Question 4: Where does a local class exist?

A) Inside a package
B) Inside an interface
C) Inside a method
D) Inside a static nested class


Question 5: What is an anonymous class?

A) A class with no methods
B) A class defined inside a package with no name
C) A class created and used instantly with no name
D) A class that cannot be instantiated


Question 6: What will this code print?
public class Outer {
    private String message = "Hello!";

    class Inner {
        public void display() {
            System.out.println(message);
        }
    }
}

// In Main:
Outer outer = new Outer();
Outer.Inner inner = outer.new Inner();
inner.display();

A) Compilation error — Inner cannot access message
B) null
C) Hello!
D) Compilation error — wrong instantiation syntax


Question 7: Which statement about local classes is TRUE?

A) Local classes can be accessed from anywhere in the program
B) Local classes can only be used within the method they are defined in
C) Local classes must be static
D) Local classes cannot implement interfaces


Question 8: When would you use an anonymous class over a local class?

A) When you need to reuse the class multiple times in the same method
B) When you need a one-time implementation that won't be reused
C) When you need to access private members of the outer class
D) When you need the class to be visible across packages

MY ANSWERS: 8/8
1. A ✅
2. B ✅
3. C ✅
4. C ✅
5. C ✅
6. C ✅
7. B ✅
8. B ✅